[Silence]
Let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope.
It is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome Soviet missile threat
with measures that are defensive.
Let us turn to the very strengths in technology that spawned our great industrial base
and that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today.
What if free people could live secure in the knowledge
that their security did not rest upon the threat of instant US retaliation
to deter a Soviet attack?
That we could intercept and destroy strategic ballistic missiles
before they reached our own soil or that of our allies?
I know this is a formidable technical task,
one that may not be accomplished by the present.
Victor Technologies, the high-flying hardware computer company
which took a nosedive this year,
may be bought out by the British firm Applied Computer Technologies.
Piloting the space shuttle is very difficult to do, one would think.
Can a kid or a normal person actually pull this off?
Well, what I did when I designed this was I understood that problem.
It seems the sweep of technology has no limits.
In San Francisco this week, the world's first robot bartender was unveiled.
The robot can talk and take spoken orders and can mix 200 different drinks.
But on the first test run, the robot knocked a glass off the bar and onto the floor
and poured beer all over the counter.
The robot's designer said there were still some bugs to be worked out.
[Music]
I call upon the scientific community in our country,
those who gave us nuclear weapons,
to turn their great talents now to the cause of mankind and world peace.
To give us the means of rendering these nuclear weapons
impotent and obsolete.
Tonight, consistent with our obligations of the ADM Treaty,
recognizing the need for closer consultation with our allies,
I'm taking an important first step.
Instant US retaliation.
Nuclear war. Nuclear war.
[Music]
In Japan, where high technology is showcased,
consumers stare and wonder at the latest facet of life overtaken by the computer age,
the department store.
While the Seibu store is proud of its technology,
it is worried that customers will feel it has lost the human touch.
[Music]
Let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope.
It is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome Soviet missile threat.
With measures that are defensive.
Let us turn to the very strengths in technology that spawned our great industrial base
and that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today.
What if free people could live secure in the knowledge
that their security did not rest upon the threat of instant US retaliation to deter a Soviet attack?
That we could intercept and destroy strategic ballistic missiles
before they reached our own soil or that of our allies.
I know this is a formidable technical task, one that may not be accomplished by the future.
[Music]
Victor Technologies, the high-flying hardware computer company which took a nosedive this year,
may be bought out by the British firm Applied Computer Technologies.
[Music]
Piloting the space shuttle is very difficult, the difficult one would think.
Can a kid or a normal person actually pull this off?
Well what I did when I designed this was I understood that problem.
It seems the sweep of technology has no limits.
In San Francisco this week, the world's first robot bartender was unveiled.
The robot can talk and take spoken orders and can mix 200 different drinks.
But on the first test run, the robot knocked a glass off the bar and onto the floor
and poured beer all over the counter.
The robot's designer said there were still some bugs to be worked out.
[Music]
I call upon the scientific community in our country,
those who gave us nuclear weapons,
to turn their great talents now to the cause of mankind and world peace.
To give us the means of rendering these nuclear weapons
impotent and obsolete.
Tonight, consistent with our obligations of the ADM Treaty,
recognizing the need for closer consultation with our allies,
I'm taking an important first step.
Instant US retaliation in the nuclear war.
Nuclear war.
Now, okay, Georgi Dinkov, Mr. Ray Peat, how are you guys?
Thank you for joining us. Thank you everybody in the chat.
Georgi Dinkov, how are you?
I'm all right, you know, living a few blocks away from the White House,
hoping DC will not get burned down in the next two weeks.
And Ray, are you living life without a mask in Oregon?
I haven't had a mask on for weeks.
I got a face shield,
I thought I was going to use it to go to the bank,
but the bank was no longer admitting even mask wearers,
so I didn't get a chance to try out my plastic face shield.
Was that because of the dust and the things,
or was that a requirement for the bank?
No, the state governor said that you could wear a face shield instead of a mask.
I was just going to see if the stores or banks actually would follow her orders
because the bank seemed so crazily panicked,
but I didn't get a chance to try them.
So you're opting to do that because of the negative health effects from a mask,
or just not enjoying wearing one?
Yeah, just not wanting to wear a mask.
Having a piece of plastic two inches in front of your face doesn't disturb anything.
One of the crazy things, like in Mexico,
the people that seem to be the most affected seem to be the lowest socioeconomic individuals.
The people cleaning the Jardin are suffering so badly wearing a mask when it's extremely hot outside.
Somebody in San Francisco might not think it's a big deal to go to the shop and wear a mask,
but you've got to think about people that are suffering big time.
Yeah.
Okay, so Georgi, you have some questions just about life in general,
and then we can kind of move on to, we were talking about respiration
and kind of going step by step in the last few live streams about just the stress system
and all the work that Ray has done, but Georgi, I'll let you take the reins.
Yeah, my question is, Ray, I'm sure you've seen the news that they found water on the moon,
and also they found phosphine on Venus,
and there have been news over the last five or ten years that they found vitamin B3 and glycine in outer space.
So, especially when it comes to phosphine, the consensus, if we believe it,
says that phosphine cannot really, they don't know of any inorganic process that is capable of creating phosphine.
All the processes on Earth seem to involve life.
Do you think that suggests that maybe life forms on Venus and other planets as well?
Very possible, but I don't think they have a broad enough conception of what life is.
I think there are probably life equivalents that have gone down very different routes for making organisms.
I think of it as a basic reflex of being, of matter itself, that is a starting point of life.
And you can go off in an infinite number of directions,
except as limited by those innate impulses intrinsic to matter.
So, I would not limit my possibilities to thinking that organisms had to have been the source.
Okay, so what would be a good test for life, I mean, considering that our ideas so far about life,
well not ours, but scientific ideas about life are so limited?
Oh, I think it has to be an inductive kind of perceptual reason.
Watch something and see what happens.
So, if it basically displays pattern recognition qualities that would classify as consciousness, basically?
Yeah, self-organizing and generating order out of disorder.
Right, but it's not at all limited to the physical manifestations that we're familiar with here on Earth, right?
Right, right. I think you could imagine processes that are more like a layer of matter that keeps reorganizing itself in all directions,
but without separating off in the individual organisms.
Okay.
My picture of a solid substance is very similar to everything we think of as life.
In a metal, you have the little magnetic domains, the crystal forming domains, the passage of time and energy through the metal,
like if the metal bends back and forth, these domains will interact and build up and form crack possibilities.
And similar domains to the little magnetic domains, for example, if you hammer a magnet,
it gradually loses magnetism unless it's in a magnetic field,
but just hammering a piece of iron in the Earth's magnetic field,
the iron will rearrange itself and form a big magnet because those little domains are constantly ready to respond to their environment.
And I think there are electric domains, even though the metal seems to be conducting as a whole or a unit,
I think there are electronic domains on a small scale that define properties such as photoelectric properties.
And all of these intrinsically organizing subunits of something that seems to be a mere mass of an element,
all of these have lifelike properties.
So I would see granite, for example, as tending to become more alive.
So basically, if we can talk of any generic requirements for life, it would be some form of a self-directed, self-controlled, autonomous electron flow?
Yeah, exactly.
Okay. But then again, the shape, if we can say the shape of that life form would be context specific.
It would be different depending on where you're looking at, right? Saturn would have a different life form, Venus would do…
Yeah, because all of these things like the iron you hammer in the Earth's field, it's taking on…
its nature is developing in relation to its environment.
And I think that's always happening.
Everything on some level knows where it is in the world, not only where but when.
So the awareness of process, everything really is not only needing to be defined in terms of everything in its momentary environment,
but in the tendency of the environment to be changing in a certain direction.
Okay. Well, according to this discussion we had, then all of these approaches that NASA has to finding life seem hopelessly obsolete.
They're just looking for something that looks like bacteria no matter where they send their probes.
So it means like it's kind of stupid to do that.
Exactly. They're ideologues as to what life is and if you look at what they dogmatically believe a cell is,
you have to say that the whole enterprise is stupid. Even as they try to understand bacteria on Earth,
they're committed to impossible doctrines.
So naturally, if they look for something that doesn't quite exist on Earth, they're likely to be missing everything interesting.
What do you make out of the reports that the original Voyager probes that went to Mars in the 1970s
apparently initially reported that they found organic life forms there,
but then I guess the powers that be quickly decided that it was a mistake, that the sensors weren't properly calibrated.
Yeah, I think that happens all the time.
Okay.
The raw data everywhere is more into official conclusion like the Michelson-Morley experiment.
The textbooks insist that they didn't find an ether drift, but it's very clear in their data
and in the follow-up studies over the next 20 or 30 years, it kept being confirmed.
The establishment periodically subsidizes someone to shoot down the alternative interpretations
just because they were close to the actual recorded data isn't sufficient.
They violate the paradigm and so have to be destroyed.
Do you think the discovery of life outside of Earth may have some sort of a politically destabilizing effect
that may trigger a collapse of the current fake ideas and that's maybe why,
even if they have been discovered, we haven't heard anything about them?
Yeah, it's exactly the same sort of thing that led to Gilbert Ling being isolated and absolutely walled off from the whole scientific world.
You mentioned Halton Arp a bunch of times.
If what he found was taken seriously, that would lead to a reimagining of everything, right?
Yeah, Fred Soddy, the isotope guy, Fred Soddy in his actual writings was a very interesting person
who believed in continuing creation in empty space and exactly harmonizing with Halton Arp.
So the continuous creation would be, in the Electric Universe theory lingo,
would be the creation of charged particles out of neutrinos under the effects of the electrical force.
Is that right?
Yeah, that's their idea, but Halton Arp or Fred Soddy believed that cosmic rays represented newly created atoms.
Halton Arp was seeing these clouds, the red shifted clouds attached to an old looking galaxy.
I think he was seeing the concentrated newly formed matter and Halton Arp was suggesting that
the stray bits of it that didn't condense in a new red shifted galaxy,
that we're seeing newly created matter constantly streaming through the world.
So what would be the process that creates that new matter?
Is that like the high intensity, the energetic intensity of a star?
Yeah, N. A. Kozyrev argued that it was the passage of time itself, the asymmetry of being,
that time is a property of matter getting richer and more in quantity, improving its complexity and mass even.
No one ever really attempted to argue against his reasoning that there was simply the assumption, 160 years ago,
that time must be symmetrical, that there must be the possibility of time going in the other direction,
but it just doesn't make sense.
There was a mathematical physics professor at the University of Oregon who believed he could explain
the nuclear fission and lots of things in terms of particles coming from the future,
coming backwards in time and hitting present things,
but no one has rationally tried to deconstruct Kozyrev's view that matter is asymmetrical
in the sense of always getting later and that passage of time in asymmetry is adding information and energy to the universe constantly.
Okay. In those original Dudley papers about the neutrino sea,
I think I remember him saying that he thought that the neutrinos were created inside stars.
Do you remember that paragraph?
Not that particular paragraph, but that would overlap nicely with Kozyrev's time.
Kozyrev said matter is being, or energy is being created in relation to the mass,
and his predictions of planetary internal energy have been confirmed fairly recently
even in terms of the big gaseous planets.
Everything is fitting his scheme of heat production internally in proportion to their mass,
and he worked it out for stellar energy in terms of mass,
but then applied it to the Earth's internal heat and was looking to test it in the dark of the moon
when he saw red eruptions on the moon, and that has been confirmed repeatedly,
but it was denied just because it violated the conservation of matter and energy at such a radical level.
Yeah, I was just about to ask you, if matter is created constantly and energy increases proportionally,
wouldn't that immediately violate the conservation of matter and also the second law of thermodynamics?
Yeah, but he pointed out that that was all deduced from Christian beliefs about the creation of the universe.
Understood, understood.
In one of your interviews with Danny, you talked about Lenin and basically the idea of memory versus matter,
and you said that matter is basically, and that's what Lenin said apparently,
is that matter is nothing except what we can know and become, but we don't know where matter is coming from.
Is that maybe the ultimate unanswerable question, where is matter coming from?
Yeah, I think all of these people have given a rational side of the answer that neutrinos appearing according to the mass of the matter,
that and Kozyrev's projection of stellar energy in terms of mass,
or cosmic rays being the earliest form of matter coming into existence with kinetic energy as part of their inheritance from the nature of matter.
I think the process of knowing where matter comes from will involve getting a grasp on what the nature of a neutrino is,
and what electrons and protons and neutrons are, and all of their potentialities.
I think a picture will emerge that has a more satisfying answer to why is matter emitting energy and becoming greater in complexity and mass.
The physicist David Bohm thought that there's a creative principle in the universe, and he was I guess repeating what Aristotle said as well.
Do you think that that creative principle may be what's responsible for this constant stream of matter into existence?
Yep. That's just another way of talking about the same thing.
The next development of man, a banker wrote a series of books on alternate views of physics,
and what was his name? White. Lancelot Law White. He was looking for that same principle that Bohm called the creative principle,
or that Kozyrev called time, and the empirical things that Halton Arp saw. I think they're all talking about exactly the same thing.
So when humans exercise their creative principles, such as paintings or creating music or doing any kind of creative activity,
do you think we're doing something akin to creating energy, creating matter?
I think of consciousness as a sort of electronic gel inside the brain.
It has different properties according to the chemical and biological energy of the cells,
but consciousness is electronic in nature like an excited cloud that is simply resting on the living substance
and functioning to integrate the living substance, but it has its intrinsic rules of energy.
When it's operating at a low energy, some people for example will never dream in anything but words or symbols.
Others will only dream in monochromatic images.
People who have had a very happy life, not too much stress, will have more satisfying full sensory polychromatic dreams,
and their thought processes will be similarly able to be relatively free floating so that you can imagine things kinesthetically
and involving all of the sensory properties in forming images that make your thought processes tend to stay very close to empirical reality,
but that we're helping the universe to generate the possibilities for the next step of substantial change.
The energy is reaching a point where it can guide the organism to make the decisions that will allow a richer biological life,
further supporting the range of the mental creative qualities.
Are you familiar with the sensory deprivation experiments that started out in the 60s I think by the CIA
where they put people into these completely soundproof and lightproof rooms in complete darkness and silence,
and then within a few minutes people start to basically dream while awake?
Yeah. Anyone can do it if they just pay attention.
Many times I've asked people what they see when they close their eyes, and they usually say, "What do you mean? You don't see anything when your eyes are closed."
But if you say, "Well, don't you see black or red or something?"
Lots of people will deny that they see blackness when they close their eyes.
So would you say that this is an indication of basically the brain's constant need to create through dreams?
Yeah. Once you start doing it, you see that there's stuff going on.
It isn't just the color of your eyelids or darkness that you're seeing.
You're looking into your brain, and the brain is constantly playing around producing all sorts of things.
If you happen to notice something interesting pass by in your attention, then you can direct your attention to it.
It's like tuning in on a very rich TV.
According to the way you tune, you can get more and more information, sort of a hypertext of imagery.
I'll put myself out there, but I'll see fractal patterns and big circular objects that seem like electric sometimes passing by.
Then I've noticed taking things like progesterone and thyroid seem to calm down the fractal patterns. Is that...?
Yeah, you can get perfect blackness if you are very calm and in the dream-ready state.
The background should be able to quiet down into total blackness.
It's a very impressive darkness that you don't necessarily notice at night or in a cave.
It's the internal quietness of your retina and brain.
As soon as you are active in any sense, then you start seeing thoughts and dreams.
One other thing for me. I've noticed this since I was a little kid.
If I lay down and press on my eyes, it almost seems like a psychedelic type of show.
Does that make any kind of sense?
Then it will disappear when I stop pressing them or if I open my eyes.
I won't be able to duplicate it, then I'll have to wait until the next day to do the same thing.
Am I making any sense?
Sure. It's creating stimulus inflow on your retina and that activates your visual center of the brain.
Those who are going back and forth all the time...
Did I ever tell you the experiment that they did with chickens putting electrodes at the back of their eyeballs
and showing them different images?
When they showed them a checkerboard pattern, they would get a checkerboard pattern in the pickups on the back of the retina.
When they took the eyeball out and were still measuring at the end of the optic nerve, it became totally quiet.
The chickens weren't seeing anything and the electrodes didn't pick up anything.
But they gave them LSD and started getting all kinds of complicated imagery at the outer end of the optic nerve.
That shows that chickens at rest aren't projecting thoughts out into the world.
But when you test a similar thing by putting an image onto a floating contact lens projector
so that the image becomes fixed on the retina, in just two or three seconds of complete fixation,
one of the images blanks out and there will be recurring flashes every five or ten seconds.
First the image is perceived, then it disappears, then there are waves where it comes back.
If it's a basically random image, a squiggly line, that quickly disappears and doesn't come back.
You become blind to that random pattern.
But if superimposed on that squiggly line, there is some familiar shape like the letter B or number 4,
something that we're exposed to very frequently.
All of the squiggly lines disappear, but the retina stays sensitized
and continues to see the images that are meaningful to the brain,
indicating the brain is meaningfully re-energizing and sensitizing the retina.
But ordinarily the retina is fatigued and stops seeing an immobile pattern of stimulation.
So it shows that people are constantly activating their retina from the brain with endodromic impulses.
So basically the dreaming is during the day external impulses are imprinting patterns on our retina,
and at night when the stimulus is no longer there,
the brain basically goes into free creative mode in juxtaposing all of these images?
And does it project them back to the retina? Is that what we see them when we're dreaming?
Yeah, not necessarily.
The LSD type dream tends to be like perceiving luminosity in space,
but it can concentrate on the retina.
And you can tell the difference.
Salvador Dali was very good at that kind of introspection,
and he called the brain dependent, eye independent imagery,
he called it camembert for its continuity and lack of granularity.
And he called the seeing that involves the retina caviar,
because it's broken up into nervous units.
Didn't he change his views on consciousness though?
Later in his life he turned really rigid in regards to what he thought consciousness was?
In regards to what?
Salvador Dali I think started his career by basically saying that consciousness is very fluid,
very continuous, and then towards the end of his life he thought it was very discrete.
Probably, yeah. He fell into the fascist DNA mentality as he got rich by doing it.
Okay. Do you think serotonin and melatonin are necessary for dreaming?
I don't know.
Okay. Because some of the dreaming effects of LSD,
mainstream science claims that they're due because of the stimulation of one of the serotonin receptors,
but there are other chemicals, for example,
cyproheptadine is used, since it's a pure serotonin blocker,
it's used to calm down the nightmares of people with post-traumatic stress disorder,
but it doesn't eliminate their dreams.
Yeah. My first experiences with cyproheptadine were to improve my breathing at night,
and over the first two or three nights I was getting a good sleep because of the relieved bronchitis,
but after about five nights I started having weirdly intense dreams.
I think it was the changing balance of serotonin and histamine,
and so I stopped taking it for a while,
and when I returned to taking it I found that I had become about ten times more sensitive to it.
It did something building up so that I didn't need it after about five days,
but in the process it let loose something in the dream apparatus that made them disturbingly random and intense.
Do you think the nightmare seen in people with severe trauma is basically maybe some kind of a defense mechanism of the body,
because since these people have very highly elevated serotonin,
the body synthesizes more melatonin to lower the levels of serotonin,
and the excess melatonin causes these nightmares,
because melatonin is known in high doses to cause really disturbing and bizarre dreams.
Yeah, that sounds reasonable.
Okay.
Is that all you had, Georgi?
Sorry, I'm having PTSD from our connection keeps dipping a little bit, but I'm following along.
I was going to ask Ray about the symbols of an alien sky.
So, Ray, I know you're not an expert on it, and David Talbott and Wallace Thornhill,
I'm assuming those are some of the people that originated this idea,
but I did want to ask you, in a Vernadskyian sense,
if what they're talking about in Saturn and Venus and Mars created some kind of amazing electrical confirmation thousands of years ago,
and it blocked out our sun, how would that have changed evolution in us?
Like, if we didn't have the heat source of the sun radiating down on the planet?
And the changing magnetic fields, I think our brain development is very susceptible to the weak magnetic fields of the Earth,
and those are changed by events on the sun.
Velikovsky and several other people have theorized that it was these solar system events that created the great religious myths,
stories of the flood and so on, being actual historical memory of interactions, a spark passing between Venus and Earth, for example.
I mean, they call it the great period. Do you think... I could be not understanding, but in the Vernadskyian sense,
the sun is essential to the evolution and the complexifying nature of throwing energy into a system.
Would Saturn or the Venus, would that have taken the role of our sun?
And besides the magnetic fields, the heat being thrown at the Earth, would that have been...
that could have led to some superior evolution of humans and interactions and things, or what?
Have you ever read the guy that intended to debunk astrology and ended up confirming that he could see effects of the five heavy planets,
or the five nearby planets, not Mercury, but the biggest and closest planets, showed an influence on personalities according to their birth time?
Michel Gauquelin was the French guy who wanted to debunk it.
Cosmic clocks.
Cosmic, yeah.
Okay, so those planets being in very close proximity would have changed everything. Is that right to say?
Yeah, our time, the actual passage of time and intensity of chemical reactions, everything influenced by gravitational fields,
the concentration of neutrinos, that was Horace Dudley's idea that could explain the Michelson-Morley Ether drag,
that if neutrinos have a taste for associating with mass, then they tend to form a gradient,
getting more concentrated towards the center of the Earth and dropping off at high altitudes.
And so when Miller took his apparatus up either to higher mountains or put it into holes in the ground, deep basements,
he found less drag at high altitudes and more drag in the basements, consistent with Dudley's idea that the neutrino sea constitutes the luminiferous ether that used to be in the textbooks.
I mean, if their hypothesis is right, this seems like the most important thing imaginable.
I mean, is that overstating things? Like, what could be—like, it explains so much about human history.
It just seems like it's so central to understanding everything.
Yeah, I exchanged a few letters with Horace Dudley and asked his opinion on what he thought about crystal domains
and being a resonance, keys resonance factors for neutrinos and that the crystal in nature of the Earth would be the crystals that they were attracted to as well as the mass.
And he agreed that that seemed reasonable, but he hadn't mentioned it himself.
But I ran across a clipping by a physicist who had put radioactive carbon isotopes in fatty acid, incorporated into fatty acids.
And showed that in the test tube, they produced the perfect normal random nuclear decay,
which is the principle that everything—nuclear power reactors are based on the absolute randomness of decay.
But when he put a drop of this, let it form a monolayer on aluminum foil, he then recorded nonrandom decay,
showing that something as—a force as weak as the crystalline-like surface of a metal would allow some energy to store up and then hit the atoms in a nonrandom intermittent fashion.
And I corresponded with Dudley. He said that crystalline interaction with neutrinos seemed reasonable, but he hadn't talked about it.
But he was warning that we don't know enough about the factors that cause nuclear decay, and in the ignorance of what actually is causing the nuclear decay, being interaction with neutrino sea,
he warned that nuclear bombs and nuclear reactors might not obey their assumption of random nuclear disintegration.
And I went to look up Anderson's article, the physics guy who put the fatty acid oil on aluminum, and I found that Anderson had published his article in the very week—the same journal
in which Dudley was warning against the dangers of nonrandom fission in nuclear reactors, and neither of them was aware of the other, but both came up to a similar conclusion that nuclear disintegration is not a random event.
Have you seen the news over the last two or three years that they found that the intensity of the sun's magnetic field influences the apparent randomness of the radioactive decay?
No, I haven't heard that, but that's the same idea that weak forces in the environment are not trivial or are not absolutely irrelevant to nuclear decay just because of the high energy it takes for a physics person to cause fission.
Nature undoubtedly has many alternative routes to creating disintegration.
So they didn't warn about spontaneous going off of nukes and reactors, but they did raise an issue with the reliance of biology and archaeology on dating archaeological artifacts by using the carbon-14 dating, and they said that's not reliable.
Anderson, in particular, got involved in that, and that whole thing—the creationist people were also challenging carbon dating, and so that was a further problem for Anderson's reputation.
He was talking about things that the creationists were interested in, too.
Okay. Are you familiar with the natural nuclear reactor that exists in Gabon in Africa?
No.
Apparently, if you Google it, you'll find it, but the reason I'm bringing this up is that the archaeologists found that there's been a nuclear reactor that apparently, if we believe the carbon dating, has been sitting there and periodically creating mini nuclear explosions every couple of hundred years, and they think it's at least 100,000 years old, if not more.
And they were kind of worried. The article that I read is that, well, if this nuclear reactor is capable of spontaneously going off, what does that mean for our man-made nuclear reactors?
It was a pretty interesting article, but if you Google "Gabon nuclear reactor" on Google, the Wikipedia page will come up immediately.
That sort of thing must be suppressed. It will destroy all of the existing assumptions of physics.
Do you think that's one of the major reasons not to pursue nuclear power is that, despite the assurances we're getting, the evidence, the trail of evidence that we have, like the Three Mile Island, the Chernobyl, and all the others, Fukushima, shows that these things tend to end badly, no matter how controlled they are.
Yeah. If you're familiar with a variety of physics professors, you can get an idea of how rigidly dogmatic they are about their assumptions.
When there was evidence of cold fusion, for example, they practically foamed at the mouth in saying what an awful thing that was to propose cold fusion.
It just caused their brains to undergo spontaneous reactions.
They did ruin the careers of those three original scientists that proposed it in the 70s, if I'm not mistaken.
Dudley warned me not to talk about any of these things if I was not financially independent.
He said he retired from the Navy and had a pension he could live on so he could dare to talk about such things.
Wow. Do you think that there have been civilizations on Earth that have been more, let's call them knowledge advanced, I don't like the word technology and science,
but that have been more in tune with nature and been capable of feats such as building the pyramids in Egypt or the ones in Mexico and whatnot?
Because those don't seem to be possible even with modern technology.
Yeah, yeah. There is intelligence popping up everywhere.
My favorite old civilization was the one that made those giant round heads in Mexico.
They were so intelligently designed and sculpted that they weren't archaic looking anatomically like the Egyptian sculptures.
Were those the Aztecs or not?
No, they were Olmecs I think they associated them with.
Okay. The reason I'm asking is because there are examples all over the world of artifacts that don't seem to be possible.
There's one even in Florida. There's a guy who was an immigrant to the United States.
I think he came originally from Latvia and he single-handedly built this castle using limestone blocks.
I think each one of them were like 10 tons each. In the early 20th century, there was just no technology that would allow this person to build that.
Of course, there are many myths about this, but what do you think could be the explanation?
His own writings are very cryptic. He claimed that he discovered that there is a nature of magnetism that is unlike anything that the official science books are saying.
He was capable of levitating these stones and moving them around. Do you think there's any possible truth to that or do you think it's completely bogus?
No. I'm open to all kinds of alternative interpretations.
Do you think if humanity is allowed to develop spontaneously without any authoritarian influence, we will be able to resolve most of our pressing problems pretty quickly?
Yeah. As soon as an interesting idea pops up in a university or corporation, it's likely to be destroyed before the person can talk to a reasonable number of informed people.
If you stop shooting down all of the interesting alternative ideas, things would necessarily multiply realistic possibilities exponentially.
You were born in the 30s. Do you remember even during childhood a time when, let's say in the United States or at least the Western world, it was a more freer time, I guess? More freer period?
Oh yeah. Old people at the time were always talking about how awful things are getting, but just from the late 30s to the late 40s, I saw a horrible increase in authoritarianism.
1950 was when it really took off with full government support to cleanse the high schools and universities of dissenting thinking in physics, biology, politics.
Do you think there may be a natural factor that may have contributed to that, such as changes in solar activity or maybe even intergalactic changes that would contribute to this increase in evil over the last hundred years?
No, I think it's the accumulation of power in the ruling class. I think we can see all of the links like Hitler accumulated power from American, British, and French banking institutions,
and the defeat of Germany was really the universalization of the structure of evil he had constructed.
His intelligence apparatus was taken over by the CIA, so Hitler himself lost, but the project continued.
The same bankers that created Hitler collaborated with the CIA to continue the project. That's why there was such a burst of evil with the year that the CIA was born.
That was when Lamarckism was rooted out of all of the schools in the United States.
Do you see power as a concept, as something akin to glycolysis and intelligence as something akin to oxidative phosphorylation?
Power is a very effective but very brutal way to do things, but at the cost of basically completely destroying intelligence.
Yeah, energetically it's like cancer. It runs very fast, but very stupidly.
So it's basically in a very inhospitable environment. It's indispensable to survival, but that's about it. It doesn't really have any other evolutionary usage.
Have you seen the article about Klaus Schwab and starting with his being born in 1938 in Germany and having assimilated in his formative first seven years the ethos of Nazism?
All of his talking points are a continuation of Hitlerism.
Same way that Conrad Lorenz with his genetic determinism was amplified with the defeat of Germany rather than suppressed.
So all of the eugenics people came into a world that was designed around all of the principles of gene determinism or eugenics.
I was watching one of James Corbett's video and he said the World Economic Forum was kind of making a power move among the elite people, maybe to establish dominance, even more than the Bilderbergers and the trilateral commissions and the CFR type of people.
They're apparently extremely organized. Do you think there's any truth to that?
I think the World Economic Forum has taken over right along with the CIA and the top biggest banks.
The Gates Foundation is one of their tools, but I think the brain of the system is between the World Economic Forum and the CIA.
I just don't remember hearing about Klaus for the last, maybe I'm just totally ignorant, which is a real possibility, but I just don't remember hearing about him very much through all the so-called conspiracy channels.
No, he was very open for the last five or six years. He's been saying all of these horrible things. We need more genetically modified organisms to completely take over the food economy. Everything has to be made artificial.
And then where does Eric Schmidt sit in that? Is he just an idea person that the World Economic Forum has taken a hold of his specific thoughts?
Yeah, I think he's on the level of the Gates Foundation. He's a tool of the American digital community.
And then, we've said it multiple times, but this whole thing is so the elite will never be challenged again. They'll dog tag everyone and then their power will be set for, I'm sure they think, forever.
Is there anybody who is warning the elite, sorry to interrupt, that there must be other people that have made the parallel, if not with glycolytic cancer, at least to the fact that after power concentration passes a certain threshold, empires tend to collapse.
Empires must be aware of that, or at least historically they must have seen what's happening after you become really, really too powerful. There's no one left to fight. And that's what seems to trigger sometimes the collapse of the empires.
Is there anybody warning the empire, the current empire, saying, "Look, we do need a little bit of intelligence. We shouldn't be crushing every last living free spirit around the world because that will be the end of us as well"?
No, I don't think they see that.
It's funny Gates is saying we need to vaccinate 7 billion people, but is it there like 7.8 or 7.5 billion people?
He's not including himself in that number, that's why.
So, while we're on this topic, is there any more to say about what's happened in a month, Ray, like the developments, all the secret contracts and the Operation Warp Speed being apparently largely a military operation? Is there anything else of note that we should touch on?
No.
The lawyers who are getting organized to sue governments and demand release of the information that they based their shutdown on, if the courts have any autonomous function, that's going to be continuing to get more interesting.
It's funny because you sent me that video that was, what's it called? Let me scroll up here. It's Crimes Against Humanity by Reiner Fulmich.
And that video, I mean, it wouldn't have a million views or something, but I put it in the Notion document that I was going to use to collect all the notes for this episode, and right now I'm staring at a dead video. It was taken off YouTube.
And so that's very encouraging, the censorship that we're now dealing with.
What specifically about that, you might have just addressed it, but what specifically about that, do you think there's some kind of inroad to change through the law system?
Yeah, it's a win in court. It's going to get some attention, like was it Minnesota where they got a court decision against the governor and had her policy annulled?
Michigan, Michigan. The governor was Michigan.
There's a funny meme going around. It's like the founding fathers of the constitution. And it says, "Just in case anybody," I'm going to screw this up, but it's like, "Just in case anybody needs to know all of this doesn't matter in case there's a virus."
So it's like all these constitutional rights just vanish instantaneously when the WHO declares a pandemic apparently. And so very, very interesting.
I wanted to raise a point about the vaccines and the military being involved. I don't know if you're aware, but there's a federal law which basically mandates that the National Health Service, which is actually technically part of the military, is always involved in any vaccine trial.
And sometimes their involvement is classified. Do you know anything about that, Ray?
Involved in every what?
In every vaccine trial.
Oh, that's true that they are a branch of the military establishment.
Their only difference is that they aren't a weapons user. They have to get someone from another branch of the government if they want to have weapons when they visit you.
Right. I mean, I was reading a few blogs and apparently a lot of this is classified, but the reason they're involved is, officially at least, that's the official reason, is that because of that vaccine injury program that the Health and Human Services runs, apparently that's also ...
So the military says, "Look, we need to be involved as well." And the National Health Service is apparently mostly involved with reviewing the claims and determining if there's any national security threat to any of that.
So that's the official reasoning. But there have been some declassified documents that suggest that the military is actually actively looking at every vaccine trial and trying to glean information if this could become another bioweapon.
So they're getting access to all the medical records, to everything that happens in that vaccine trial.
And sometimes, of course this is all in the area of speculation, even if a vaccine is known to be dangerous and ineffective, the military will push for it to be released because they will think it can become an effective weapon in the future if it's only slightly modified so they can turn it against a foreign country.
Yeah, they've been throughout history of the 20th century, they've been operating a biological weapons establishment, researching it, and it periodically becomes public.
I think the reason the news around 2015 started coming out of how sloppy they were, thousands of potentially dangerous leaks of engineered viruses that were designed to be specifically infective to humans,
and more toxic symptoms produced than the wild virus, this information, it had been leaking out slowly,
about five years ago they started letting out more publicity about how dangerous this program was and that led to the moratorium which led to Fauci taking some of the programs outside the country, to China for example.
There are germ warfare labs operated by the US in several countries of Europe and Africa as well as China, so they're outside the US jurisdiction.
But I think the fact that we got so many leaks appearing suddenly was specifically part of the program, the Rockefeller Foundation, Gates Foundation, and World Economic Forum were working on this planned creation of a panic,
and as part of getting the public to panic it's very effective to let information leak out that these super dangerous engineered viruses might have been leaking all along for several years.
So they were basically sending a message to China that they might actually be ready to return to biological warfare against China with one of these super dangerous viruses.
Why would China allow, yeah go ahead.
Well China already in the Korean War had experience with American attempts at biological warfare.
Wilfred Birchert was the journalist who was following that and interviewing the people in China and Korea who had experienced the drops of the various organisms.
And so I think it was sending a message to China to help to create the environment for declaring the pandemic.
They knew they were going to declare a pandemic years in advance and it helped to give it realism by having these press releases.
So why would China even agree to have a US led laboratory or even work in tandem with the US to create these viruses considering that some of them very likely may be turned against China, may be used in a future attack against China?
I think they were hoping that they would have more knowledge of what the threat was if they were actually participating in it.
Okay so it's a form of like voluntary economic espionage. China said keep your enemies closer right? Get the US on our territory to do that work and we can learn what they're doing and potentially be ready to protect ourselves and also maybe develop even something better.
Yeah but I doubt that they realized that these plans had been going on for years to create the pandemic or to declare the pandemic.
But they took all of the necessary precautions in case it was a dangerous germ warfare agent but then within just two or three months they were right in Wuhan, they were celebrating holidays in gigantic public assemblies.
There's a picture on the internet of hundreds and hundreds of people crammed into a giant swimming pool right at the peak of the pandemic fear in the United States. These people were a thousand or so together standing two or three feet apart.
So a couple of things. So do you think basically China first of all realized that this virus is not what of course the propaganda is trying to make it out to be and they basically now they're fully open. Is that why you think China reopened? They realized it's a false flag?
Yeah I think they realized the threat was gone about May and they reopened everything.
So how do you think the US public, a significant portion of the US public and I don't know a significant portion of Europe, Western world in general, how can they look at China being fully reopened and several other countries as well and still believe that we need to go into a lockdown and there's a surge here and all these masks and all these other measures are necessary considering the Chinese are having the times of their lives right now?
I think they're just so confident that they've done a thorough brainwashing job controlling the media now for 70 some years total control.
I haven't seen a single article in the popular press that said, "Hey look China is fully open. How come they're open and we're not?" This has never been brought up to my knowledge in any of the major newspapers in the United States or Western Europe.
Yeah they can get away with saying that everything coming out of China is fake because they're a communist country even though they're nominally communist. They're the world's biggest capitalist economy.
Right. Okay.
Speaking of the vaccine, did you see the news about every, what is it, three out of four phase three trial vaccines had a serious adverse event. In two of them people died and the third one was transverse myelitis which is the media's euphemism for polio.
So I thought like, "Oh how convenient." Maybe the reason they don't want to call it a polio is because then people will start asking the question of, "Was the polio epidemic in the 50s caused maybe by one of these engineered or vaccines gone rogue?"
Yeah and have you seen the figures showing that the very year the vaccine came out and the polio incidence of cases suddenly dropped off, the other things such as myelitis and Guillain-Barre syndrome,
other types of very similar paralytic diseases skyrocketed back up to the level that had been seen in polio epidemics.
So the same thing as with the flu. The flu cases have disappeared today but the COVID ones are spiking.
Yeah. One thing disappears when they rename it something else.
Wow. What do you think is causing the polio? Do you think it's a viral disease or do you think it's just a toxicity symptom in a severely hypodermic person?
Starting early in the 20th century, people were noticing that polio epidemics appeared first in history in the countries in which the medical profession decided to become up to date and do things that verbalists couldn't,
weren't allowed to do by injecting all of their drugs. The hypodermic needle had been invented just 10 or 20 years before the first polio epidemic and doctors started injecting all sorts of drugs and people started noticing that the paralytic polio cases,
practically all of them had previously been injected with something, if not a vaccine, other drugs.
And all through the early part of the 20th century, it was actively discussed that the fact showed that the arm or the leg which was paralyzed happened to be the arm or leg in which some injection had taken place.
Usually a vaccine but any injection tended to be associated with paralysis in that particular limb.
By 1950, that was being seriously investigated and in Africa, it is now pretty well recognized that the paralyzed limb is the one in which the child had the polio vaccine injection.
Have you seen the case studies on PubMed?
Animal experiments showed that injecting an irritant into the muscle sends signals to the brain indicating inflammation and damage and they could create a paralytic localization according to where they injected something.
So animal experiments confirmed the observations in humans.
Have you seen the published case studies on PubMed showing that compromised gut barrier can cause Guillain-Barre syndrome and many of these paralytic states that we've seen also with vaccines?
So basically what I'm getting at is that endotoxin overload can trigger temporarily such paralysis in limbs and sometimes even mimic the symptoms of stroke.
And if I'm not mistaken, for a long time, endotoxin, also known as lipopolysaccharide, was used as an adjuvant in the vaccines. Do you know if it's still used?
Only accidentally. It's in a lot of the vaccines silently. They don't list it as an ingredient naturally, but it's there because of the general contamination of the culture medium.
Do you think the aluminum that has replaced the lipopolysaccharide as an adjuvant, do you think it can trigger some of the same symptoms, the paralytic symptoms?
Yeah, it's very powerful. Some of the aluminum shows up in the brain. An English professor has done a lot of research on that and produced very consistent convincing results that the aluminum is reaching the brain and causing a variety of symptoms.
So basically don't get the vaccine, right? Because it's definitely going to have at least aluminum in it.
Yeah, and I think a lot of them do have the endotoxin.
Speaking of vaccines and the polarization in our society, maybe a good segue, the physiology of being offended. And as I was exploring that question, I think, Ray, you initially referenced it in one of your articles, the Paul Andrews paper, "Is serotonin an upper or downer?"
He says, "In summary, the melancholic brain appears to be reconfiguring to learn solutions to complex problems. The processes involved in this learning appear to be so energetically expensive that growth and reproduction are downregulated. We argue that the process involved in making these tradeoffs are coordinated by serotonin."
Vaccines, our conversations about Stalin, a lot of things that seriously rile people up. Is there a certain physiology with this intense anger of what is happening when somebody is violently reacting to an idea that they don't like?
It does activate, especially serotonin, probably histamine too. And that undoubtedly is increasing their intestinal permeability, vascular permeability all through the system.
I sort of hoped that some of my comments about Lysenko maybe were causing strokes of some of the fanatics.
You were hoping?
Is it because the culture gives so few resources to find meaning and so people integrate these ideas within themselves and then if they encounter something that doesn't fit, it causes some kind of intense physiological reaction?
Oh yeah. It's like slandering their mother. Same sort of reaction, blind fury.
You said it on one of our older podcasts, but if you don't feel good, you're aging or you're degenerating. I thought that was, even though that might be kind of obvious, but I thought that was important to emphasize. If you're not in the euphoric state, there's something wrong.
Yeah.
Have you seen the studies that are mostly done on animals that mitochondrial dysfunction, in other words, low metabolism, basically ensures that the animal will assume a subordinate status while at the same time becoming extremely aggressive to anything that it dislikes in its environment?
Basically, it's the symptom of low energy that maybe because the animal feels that any change, any novelty, it cannot really cope with, it cannot really incorporate into its worldview, and that's why it's becoming aggressive, but it comes down to essentially mitochondrial dysfunction.
And the typical authoritarian personality, subservient to power but vicious towards underlings.
Yeah. That's exactly what those studies found, that it was the most vicious animal. So, there was an alpha rat that they created artificially. That's the other thing.
Those studies were interesting because they showed that this whole thing about the alpha male is actually almost entirely artificial concept. It only occurs when you place animals in a situation where they have to fight for food for survival.
As long as you provide them with ample food, then the structure becomes much more egalitarian, even in species where they claim there's always an alpha person.
Yeah. Had we talked about James Prescott's old article in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists on pleasure and the origins of violence?
I haven't heard it, but maybe you've talked about it with Danny.
Yeah, I'm familiar with it, Ray.
He looked at, I think it was 80-some anthropological studies. He was working in one of the NIH branches as a psychologist,
and he saw that it was an invariable pattern that an authoritarian culture in which males were very high in the hierarchy,
women and children were mistreated and low in the hierarchy, and there was always some kind of bodily mutilation.
It could be scarring or distortion of the ears or lips or circumcision, but these features, hierarchy, cruelty, and mutilation went with a warlike policy.
Long before Prescott published this article, which got him fired, an Oxford professor had looked at the earlier literature and came up with exactly the same conclusions,
but he said sexual repression was necessary to create culture. He said all of these things, the energetic society that created an empire by making war against weaker powers,
this required sexual repression, and so he had exactly the same conclusion, but he, being an English professor in Oxford,
concluded that that was the good stuff, empire and dominance and hierarchy.
I think he advocated for Japanese-style bathrooms and kind of a more liberal view towards nakedness and things,
and I thought that was interesting. When that was distorted, like you just said, there were all sorts of weird things that would develop.
Yeah. The guy that did the play at Harvard and got fired for it called anti-Semitic because he argued that circumcision was a power institution
to make sex unsatisfying for the men and to make them authoritarian personalities.
And also to induce this feeling of subordination from a very early age, right?
Yeah. You were subject to mutilation.
Yeah. Some of your most precious organs, which I guess in an impressionable little child would be even more traumatic.
Yeah.
Do you think that the opposite could also be used to militarize the culture? In other words, the encouragement of extreme sexual promiscuity?
Yeah. I think so. Wilhelm Reich made that argument that denaturing sex was behind the commercialization of sex.
Taking the love out of it made it mechanical and basically biologically unsatisfying.
So it's akin to the mutilation of the circumcision, but mentally?
Yeah.
Okay. Do you see some of that in our culture these days? Because I certainly do.
Yeah. The FDA burned all of Reich's books, including the Mass Psychology of Fascism, which he said was based on sexual control.
They were burned as medical devices.
Ray, I did want to – it's kind of in the same vein, but to somebody, you said the use of non-communicative jargon can be an indication of a personality disorder.
I thought that I – one, I think I know who you're talking about, and then two, that is so common in the health world and the authoritarian world.
What is – is that a form of protection from the self or something?
Like what's –
Yeah, they would be embarrassed to admit their total ignorance of a particular thing, and so they babble out some words that are completely idiotic, but they assume that no one is going to understand what stupid thing they just said because it was based on Latin words.
Well, like the Dunning-Kruger effect, one, do you buy into that concept? And then there's certainly – if that's a valid concept, there's certainly some kind of physiology associated with it, correct?
Yeah. Authoritarianism is why doctors don't have to think about what they're doing.
And high serotonin being associated with that.
Yeah, and the – they are – the real doctors who think about what they're doing are dropping out of the profession because they're – the extent to which it's being taken over by the powers wanting to make everything an algorithm.
So like Cuomo in New York wants to digitize medicine, do away with personal contact with your doctor.
What – like even the sick, high serotonin person, when they do defect from kind of the status quo, what exactly is happening physiologically? Like is there some kind of break or – like you've called it something like the navigating, the orienting reflex or something.
Is that for a moment activated based on like discordant information or something? Like what do you think is happening there?
Yeah, when the orienting reflex kicks in, you're redesigning your whole organism to some extent. And so it can be a turning point in your life.
But that's – I'm hesitant to say it's random. Like what – how does – what initiates that, especially for a person that has so much to lose?
I really don't know.
Just some kind of life experience or a story that no longer makes any sense, right?
Yeah, yeah.
I have a question. Do you know approximately when the replacement of incandescent light bulbs in hospitals happen? And what – do you think that that may have coincided a little bit with the increase of authoritarianism and psychopathy among the medical profession, just being exposed to blue lights like 24/7?
People started talking about it already in the 50s. John Ott, you know, who created the Ott light, the full spectrum light, emphasized that all of the wavelengths falling not only on your skin but getting into your eye, that the full spectrum light can restore lots of degenerative problems.
Arthritis was his first experience with it. And all of that was going on already in the 1950s when fluorescent lights became popular.
But that thought seems to have been long lost. I mean I haven't seen anything bringing up – well, actually there was an article about maybe three years ago that said fluorescent lights may give you a headache, but that's about it. I mean all of these ideas of them being much more dangerous seem to be forgotten.
Yeah. Some of Ott's experiments showed that weak x-rays were being produced at the ends of the tubes and that that was part of the toxic effect.
The lead foil around the ends of the tubes he found made them less toxic.
I think also the plastic, which has become utterly pervasive in our lives, but especially in hospitals.
There was a study two years ago that showed that simply peeling off scotch tape produced by the company 3M, but they said it could be anyone, produced actually full blown x-rays.
And they were able to take a picture of the finger of one of the researchers against a photosensitive film by just peeling off scotch tape against that finger of the person.
And they opined that basically if you essentially create a sufficient charge in any plastic object and then create a discharge, then you can basically create x-rays on demand.
They're relatively weak, but still very dangerous.
And I keep thinking that when me and my wife were going to the hospital just to get examined for the baby with the ultrasound,
the x-ray technicians kept getting these static shocks off of the equipment all the time.
And at the time I didn't know that they were maybe potentially creating x-rays, but it seems to be a pretty common thing in the hospital.
Plastics are everywhere and static electricity gets discharged all the time.
So do you think that may play a role as well?
Oh, sure. People have devised various ways to stop that effect in plastic, but I don't know how well applied they are.
Do you think the plastic may also, I mean, so I guess the endocrine disrupting effect also plays a role in the pathologizing of the hospital environment?
Yeah, a lot of the plastics are still emitting toxic chemicals too.
Is there any type of safe plastic in your opinion, or are they all capable of essentially discharging estrogenic thyroid inhibiting substances?
I don't know anything toxic about the polyethylene type plastic.
Okay.
I wanted to get into the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, but I don't know if we'll have enough time to do that subject justice.
So maybe we could talk about Mexican Coke.
Right there.
So Ray, since living here for, yeah, Georgi has one on hand.
Since living here, I've noticed that children and adults are frequently carrying the liter bottles of Coke all the time, you know?
And I think it tastes completely different, like the Mexican Coke versus anywhere else I've had it.
But I think, I wanted to talk about this because eight years ago, I think we were talking to somebody on a podcast, and they asked you, like, "Oh, what did you eat yesterday?"
And you're like, "Oh, a steak and some coffee and some milk and a Coke."
And to my 2012 or 2011 brain, that like exploded it because that was such a non-traditional item in a so-called health person's nutrition.
And so I don't know if talking about it would yield some other insights and might open up other people to why something like Mexican Coke would be useful in our current situation of kind of horrendous environment.
And so do you feel like defending Mexican Coke, or what is your thought on that?
Yeah, I think sucrose has great virtues therapeutically.
I've heard stories about fatally apparently injured animals and people who are in the hospital with hopeless symptoms being given a mouthful.
In the case of an animal in shock, they would pour a mouthful of honey in its mouth and hold its mouth shut, and in a few minutes, the animal would be up and not dying at all.
And that has happened to dogs and sheep and ducks and all sorts of animals as well as patients who were in the hospital in a hopeless condition.
Someone slipped on a jar of honey and gave them a tablespoon of it, and their symptoms disappeared.
And dozens and dozens of stories like that convince me that in an emergency of almost any sort, a good big dose of sucrose is very important.
But if you compare just coffee with added sucrose, I don't think you get quite the effects you do with Mexican Coke.
I think the coca leaf extractives are really biologically active, doing something very different from the caffeine content.
Yeah, you know I have an article here, it says Coke dropped cocaine from its recipe around 1900, but the secret formula is...
They extract the cocaine from the coca leaf but sell the remaining stuff to Coca-Cola.
So just to reiterate, the coca leaf extract has medicinal anti-inflammatory or anti-stress properties, and then you said you've seen a mineral analysis, and so there's some nutrition as well to the Coke?
Yeah, when they compared Pepsi to Coke, Pepsi was high in sodium, so that in Indochina it was recommended for babies with diarrhea as a sterile source of sodium and sugar.
But Coke didn't have nearly that much sodium, but it was very high in potassium, and the plant extractives are the only logical source for potassium.
And then the chemical for methyllimidazole, that's like brown, similar to the brown in coffee? Is there any harm to that substance?
Probably there's some harm in it, but it's offset by the other values.
Do you think there may be some psychoactive substances in coca leaf outside of the cocaine, because it's rarely only one alkaloid or whatever chemical is there that's just producing all of the effects?
They know there are several congeners of cocaine that are biologically active, but they just don't want to talk about it because they might be ordered to take those out too, and then no one would buy the product.
What do you think are the main dangers of cocaine? Is it similar to LSD, like in higher dosages become serotonergic?
Yeah, it is such a powerful stimulant. It can make things run at such a high intensity that it destroys the system.
But its main stimulant effect, do you think it's happening through the dopamine system or by stimulating metabolism?
It somewhat stimulates metabolism, but it activates the expenditure of energy so fast that's where you can get ahead of the metabolic support system and get sick from taking too much too often.
Is that why cocaine was used as a weight loss drug by housewives back in the early 1900s?
Probably. It does run the system at a high speed and it's likely to give you vitamin deficiencies and mineral deficiencies for that reason.
So similar to dinitrophenol basically?
Yeah.
Just because we'll probably get comments on it, fresh fruit juice or guava or orange or whatever would be preferable to coke.
What is your point of view of the puritanical nutritionism of some groups online, like these people that are so obsessed with nutrients. Obviously it's important, but with them not implementing things like carbon dioxide, they're not really getting the full picture. What do you think about that?
Yeah, the full picture is the whole thing. If you have all of the nutrients but an imbalance between fats and sugars for example, you're working on destroying your mitochondria.
And then the individual sleeping next to the router full of the polyunsaturated fats, they might be tempted to say like, "The Mexican coke is harmful," when in their specific situation it might be the most therapeutic thing they could immediately gravitate to.
Yeah. The fat people are quick to jump in and say, "Eat polyunsaturated fats and cut down your sugar intake," but that's the worst advice ever given.
It's causing chromosomal injury in millions of kids to have parents that have grown up on a high PUFA, anti-thyroid situation.
I have a question about Pepsi, because since you mentioned it, and it happens to be on the World Health Organization's list of approved oral rehydration therapies.
And I think that's why you mentioned that in babies in Asia it's approved, or in Africa it's approved as a treatment for diarrhea, because since they're losing a lot of electrolytes. Is that right?
Right.
Is there any benefit to Pepsi similar to the coca leaf, or is that unique to the coke product?
From the very low potassium content in the analysis I've seen, I would guess it doesn't really have a real significant amount of leaf extractives.
Okay. So basically it's just essentially sugar with water and caffeine.
Yeah. Sort of what it tastes like, too.
I think Mexican coke tastes like a fine wine. I think it tastes so good.
Anyways, Ray, I did want to ask you about this quote, and again, this was part of my intro to you.
You said a long time ago in 2011, "When people supplement thyroid and eat liver once or twice a week, their acne and dandruff and many other problems usually clear up very quickly."
I want to emphasize that just because of the simplicity of implementation.
I don't know if you want to talk about that at all, but I thought increasing the metabolic rate while improving the nutrition was kind of like an elegant approach to trying to solve maybe a complex health situation.
But doing both of those things, people seem to be resistant to either improving the nutrition or taking thyroid or thinking thyroid is very dangerous or not liking the taste of liver and trying to avoid it.
Yeah. You can make up for the absence of liver, but it takes a lot of attention to do it because it's such a rich source of many of the luxury nutrients.
Vitamin A is hard to get enough of in the active animal source of retinol.
They're pushing carotene, which is a powerfully anti-thyroid, anti-progesterone agent.
So if you try to meet your vitamin A requirements with carrot juice, for example, you're very likely to get all kinds of metabolic problems, including hormonal deficiencies.
And then last question for me.
And lung cancer, which they found out recently beta-carotene from carrot juice or from supplements seems to be drastically increasing the risk of lung cancer.
Yeah. Many, many other bad things too.
Last question for me, then I'll give it to Georgi, then I'll read the Super Chats and then let you go, Ray.
A few times you said that the Cynoplus tablet is two and a half grains, but I thought it was always three grains. Am I missing something?
It depends on what your definition of a grain is. The FDA decreed that a glandular thyroid has a certain composition, but they apparently haven't bothered measuring the differences.
Whether it's pork or beef and where the animal grew up affects very strongly the composition of the hormone value of the glandular thyroid.
So just by decree, again, about 50 years ago, they said that 100 micrograms of T4 is equivalent to 25 micrograms of T3.
And also by decree, they said that glandular thyroid usually has 3.1 parts of T4 when it's digested to each part of T3.
But all of those things are variable according to the particular mineral. So the most important thing to realize is that that ratio of 100 micrograms to 1 microgram of T4 to T3, to 25 micrograms of T3, that that ratio is imaginary.
An ideal male medical student maybe would get results like that, but in the average 35-year-old female, there's no such equivalence at all.
100 micrograms of T4 very often has antithyroid effects in a middle-aged female. And so T3 has much more value than four times the value of T4.
But like a third of a Cynoplus tablet, and I think that weighs out to like 53 milligrams, that would be, you're not objecting to calling that like a grain, right?
You're just saying it's very complex, the history of what a grain is and what a grain isn't.
Yeah.
Well, I thought a grain was just a measurement of weight. And then when the FDA got involved in defining how thyroid should look like, the natural desiccated thyroid, they try to kind of like force the various multitude of variations of natural thyroid into the definition of 65 milligrams.
Yeah, at the beginning of the 20th century, they were still using raw thyroid or cooked, but wet thyroid tissue.
And so they talked about the therapeutic dose as being one or two or three or four grains, the grain being a weight measure, 62 and a half, I think it is, milligrams.
And when the Armour Company and a couple of other smaller companies began dehydrating the product, taking out the 65 or 70% water meant that the deep padded plant was three or four times as effective as the wet plant, simply because of the absence of water.
And so they added lactose to make up for the water weight so that their product, doctors who were familiar with the wet plant prescription in terms of grains of wet, fresh plant,
they could go directly to a certain weight grain of the dehydrated product because the added lactose brought up the weight.
So the potency per weight was identical to the fresh plant.
But during its development, Armour was constantly mixing their different batches, recognizing that one particular batch of dehydrated, deep padded plant would have very different potencies.
So they would mix them until they could get a product that had the expected potency of fresh land on mice.
All of the batches were standardized for decades, testing them on mice.
So there was no rigid formula.
It was a matter of mixing until they got the right effect.
That all went away in the 90s when Armour went out of the thyroid business.
And the FDA took over by proclaiming the content.
And so people came to think that the glandular thyroid actually contained T4 and T3.
It doesn't contain those until it's broken down and digested.
Your digestive system is where the T3 and T4 are formed.
So it's misleading to describe the hormonal content at all of an untested glandular preparation.
So just talking about T3 and T4 in micrograms is a lot simpler than the erroneous measurement of grains.
Yeah.
And the CINOPLUS is very consistent in how many micrograms of each they put on each tablet.
Understood.
Georgi, do you have any last questions?
Then I'll read these super chats and then let Ray go.
Yeah, two questions.
One of them related to vaccines.
I keep getting emails maybe like once a week.
And they're usually from people that are unhappy about our stance on vaccines.
They keep saying, "Okay, we get the point.
Vaccines are dangerous.
They get all these things that can damage your health.
And they're likely not even effective because a well-functioning metabolism in a healthy cell should be capable of defending itself against the virus, infecting it and starting to replicate."
And then they say, "Well, what about really deadly viruses that basically are guaranteed to kill people unless these people get vaccinated?"
And they keep bringing up the rabies vaccine or the rabies virus.
What would you say to that, Ray?
Why does it seem that a rabies virus would kill anybody, including a healthy person with 100% lethality, unless they get vaccinated?
How do they know that?
I don't know.
I guess what they don't take into account is how many healthy people got bitten and infected with rabies virus but survived, right?
Yeah, but lots of people have been bitten by a rabid dog and weren't where they could get treatment or maybe took an herb and were fine.
I've known several people who were bitten by an officially tested rabid dog and took a cactus potion or some herb and didn't get rabies.
So, they were convinced that the herb was curative.
I think it was just their natural tendency not to contract rabies.
Is there any feature of viruses, or viri, or whatever the plural is, that would make them more or less lethal depending on which system they tend to attack?
I suppose there would be a difference between chickenpox and smallpox, the nature of the sore it produces.
And herpes, for example, they just have the type of cell they favor to live in or reproduce in.
Some people are innately immune to those even though they don't have antibodies against them. Their whole system just isn't compatible with the properties of the virus.
So, I guess all other things being equal, things like maybe if the herpes virus tends to attack the nervous system, there's more potential for a more serious outcome.
All other things being equal.
Yeah, but the better a person's health is, the less they notice having contracted herpes.
Okay. So, in your view, there's nothing really special about the rabies virus, which is just another fear-mongering that says, "Get yourself vaccinated right now."
Yeah, there haven't been any studies really that are relevant to human susceptibility.
And my second question is related to pregnenolone. There seems to be a lot of talk about that in terms of what's – many companies claim they have 99.9% pure pregnenolone,
but some people report that they get bad side effects of it, and the emails that I got from them seem to indicate that you don't think it's ever the actual pregnenolone that's causing this.
It's some kind of a contamination that's in the pregnenolone.
Do you have any specific things in mind in terms of contaminants that may cause such reactions, considering that the pregnenolone is at least – has been shown to be of such high purity?
Yeah, that one part per thousand or less, if it's something very active like an estrogenic fragment of a steroid, it takes only a few micrograms of an estrogenic substance to cause symptoms like sore breasts or uterine spasms or cramps.
I started having bad reactions to everything except the old Syntex product, the ones who were the first steroid producers,
and developed the very rigid German chemists in charge, made sure everything was done punctiliously, and other products that came on the market,
some of them even smelled different, but all of them had a very high chemical purity test, but I started having bad reactions, intestinal inflammation reactions to it, so I pretty much stopped using it about 20 years ago.
Do you think it's possible that even a pure pregnenolone, just by sitting in a bag, it may tend to disintegrate over time into some estrogenic substances?
Because there are studies showing that bacteria in air can actually metabolize pregnenolone into various estrogens. Yeast can do that too?
Very possible.
Okay. So what would be a good storage? Just put it in the freezer and keep it at as low temperature as possible?
Yeah. If you have it from a source and have tested it on oneself and friends, and can take a teaspoonful of it with no adverse effects at all for two or three days, then you're pretty sure it's the real stuff.
So maybe a good test for additional test for pregnenolone, in addition to the certificate of analysis, which only tests purity, heavy metals, and presence of bacteria, maybe also test for some of the well-known estrogenic metabolites?
I think so.
Okay. That's actually a good idea. I mean, there aren't that many, at least, that are known, so a lab should be able to test even if they're in microgram quantities.
Mm-hmm.
Okie doke.
I don't have anything else.
Let me just read these really quickly. Unfortunately, we won't be able to get to questions because Ray will be here all day, but Fab for 10 euros. Appreciate it, Fab. Thank you. Nick T for another 10 euros, I think. Thank you, Nick. Kathleen, 24.99. Thank you so much, Kathleen.
She says thank you. Machel for $50. Thank you so much, Machel. He says thank you for an inspiring discussion. Thank you, Machel. Linda Bell for $5. Harry Burgos for $25. Guys, thank you so much. I will forward these right to Ray. And I think that is it.
So, Ray, Georgi, thank you guys so much. Sincerely appreciate it. Ray, any parting words?
Nope.
And Georgi, any parting words?
Just stay safe and try to stay safe.
Yeah, I guess we'll catch up next month after the total insanity that awaits us on November 3rd, so that should be fun. Ray, stay safe. Everybody in the chat and watching this at a future date, stay safe. Thank you guys so much. We have an amazing audience.
Please subscribe on BitChute, Odyssey, which is library, or my Telegram because I just feel like our days on YouTube are probably numbered in some way, shape, or form, and so it's probably imperative that people follow us on other platforms.
And that is it. Thank you guys so much. Thank you, Ray. Thank you, Georgi. Have a great weekend, everybody. We'll talk to you guys soon. Bye, everybody.
[outro music]
Let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope. It is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome Soviet missile threat with measures that are defensive.
Let us turn to the very strengths in technology that spawned our great industrial base and that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today.
What if free people could live secure in the knowledge that their security did not rest upon the threat of instant U.S. retaliation to deter a Soviet attack, that we could intercept and destroy strategic ballistic missiles before they reached our own soil or that of our allies?
I know this is a formidable technical task, one that may not be accomplished by the time we get there.
Victor Technologies, the high-flying hardware computer company which took a nosedive this year, may be bought out by the British firm Applied Computer Technologies.
Piloting the space shuttle is very difficult, the difficult one would think. Can a kid or a normal person actually pull this off?
Well, what I did when I designed this was I understood that problem.
It seems the sweep of technology has no limits. In San Francisco this week, the world's first robot bartender was unveiled.
The robot can talk and take spoken orders and can mix 200 different drinks.
But on the first test run, the robot knocked a glass off the bar and onto the floor and poured beer all over the counter.
The robot's designer said there were still some bugs to be worked out.
[Music]
Let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope.
It is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome Soviet missile threat with measures that are defensive.
Let us turn to the very strengths in technology that spawned our great industrial base and that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today.
What if free people could live secure in the knowledge that their security did not rest upon the threat of instant US retaliation to deter a Soviet attack?
That we could intercept and destroy strategic ballistic missiles before they reached our own soil or that of our allies.
I know this is a formidable technical task, one that may not be accomplished by the British.
Victor Technologies, the high-flying hardware computer company which took a nosedive this year, may be bought out by the British firm Applied Computer Technologies.
Piloting the space shuttle is very difficult, a difficult one would think.
Can a kid or a normal person actually pull this off?
Well, what I did when I designed this was I understood that problem.
It seems the sweep of technology has no limits.
In San Francisco this week, the world's first robot bartender was unveiled.
The robot can talk and take spoken orders and can mix 200 different drinks.
But on the first test run, the robot knocked a glass off the bar and onto the floor and poured beer all over the counter.
The robot's designer said there were still some bugs to be worked out.
[Music]
I call upon the scientific community in our country, those who gave us nuclear weapons, to turn their great talents now to the cause of mankind and world peace.
To give us the means of rendering these nuclear weapons infinite and obsolete.
Tonight, consistent with our obligations of the ADF Treaty, recognizing the need for closer consultation with our allies, I'm taking an important first step.
Instant US retaliation. Nuclear war. Nuclear war.
[Music]
In Japan, where high technology showcased, consumers stare in wonder at the latest fast-food life overtaken by the computer age, the department store.
While the Seibu store is proud of its technology, it is worried that customers will feel it has lost the human touch.
[Music]
Let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope.
It is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome Soviet missile threat with measures that are defensive.
Let us turn to the very strengths in technology that spawned our great industrial base and that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today.
What if free people...